[Music]
you know once when I was a kid I went
hiking with my family and got lost I
still remember how terrified I felt
luckily it took less than ten minutes
for my uncle to find me and I guess
that's where my interest in all kinds of
survival tips comes from let's start
with number one if your wrists are bound
with zip ties rotate and move them back
and forth against each other it's likely
to loosen the cords a bit and you'll be
able to remove the ties also while
you're being tied try to clench your
fists it'll expand the muscles in your
hands and the ties will feel looser once
you relax your muscles again this will
let you wriggle your hands out of the
plastic cords know what you originally
did to earn getting plastic ties on your
wrists is not covered here too if you're
in a tough situation with nobody around
to help you out it's all too easy to
succumb to panic in this case you can
use psychological trick first visualize
how to successfully get out of trouble
then set several small goals and tackle
them one at a time it'll preoccupy your
mind and prevent you from overthinking
the situation for example being lost in
the wilderness you can draw up the
following plan find a safe place start a
fire
[Music]
build a shelter find a water source and
so on it'll take your mind off
visualizing all kinds of catastrophic
outcomes 3 if you find yourself with
frostbite take care of it as soon as you
can
despite the popular misconception do not
pour hot water on the damaged skin it'll
make things much worse instead if you
can't see a doctor immediately remove
any wet clothing and put the place with
frostbite in warm water then make sure
that the damaged body part isn't going
to freeze again and keep it elevated to
reduce swelling lastly put a bandage on
the frostbitten area if it's your
fingers or toes wrap a bandage around
each of them and place cotton balls in
between so that they don't touch never
ever rub the damaged spot for you
probably know that without water a
person can survive no more than three
days but it may take even less time
before your body stops working properly
it depends on how hot the weather is or
how active you are so if you run out of
water in the wilderness your top
priority is to find a source of it keep
in mind that water always runs downhill
head in that direction it's your best
chance to find clean water and avoid
dehydration speaking of flowing water 5
if you get lost in the wilderness and
have no idea what direction to choose
find a stream or a small Creek follow it
until it merges with a larger River and
it'll take you to an inhabited area
where you'll get help
6 you should never go on a hike without
some means to make a fire a lighter
sounds good but what if you lose it or
drop it in the water to be on the safe
side
put some matchsticks in a plastic bag
and bring them along keep in mind that
the bag should have a secure seal to
protect the matches from liquids another
way to ensure that your matchsticks will
work when you need them is to cover
their heads in wax it's easy to do just
dip the matches into hot wax and let
them dry it'll make them waterproof
and to use one you'll just have to
scrape the wax off the match hat seven
so let's say you're wandering in the
wilderness lost and desperate when
suddenly you see a cave no one will deny
that it can make a perfect shelter
there's some wood and tinder you can
pick up nearby and you have matches it
seems all odds are in your favor and
they are if you don't make a fatal
mistake which is building a fire inside
the cave
the main problem isn't the smoke from
the fire the thing is the heat coming
from your fire will cause the rocks
which make up the walls and ceiling of
the cave to expand eventually they'll
give in and you may get trapped in a
rock fall or a landslide to stay warm
and safe build a fire right outside the
cave eight if you find yourself
surrounded by snow and with no drinking
water on hand eating snow is not the
best way to rehydrate in fact it'll most
likely lead to further dehydration how
come well once you stuff some snow in
your mouth your body must start a
process that will melt the snow and warm
it up therefore you'll need to spend
more energy which will make you lose
liquids faster but that's not all eating
snow can give you hypothermia where your
body temperature is too low which is
twice as dangerous if you're alone in
the wilderness
besides chances are that snow contains
harmful bacteria that will cause an
infection if you don't have any other
solution you should melt the snow you're
going to consume in your hands first and
stay away from the stuff that doesn't
look fresh and white 9 imagine you're in
the water and your hands and legs are
securely tied up with a rope
it's not your day it may seem like an
already lost battle but it isn't first
and foremost do your best to suppress
panic and the instinctive urge to flail
hold your breath and wait until you get
down to the bottom as soon as you feel
something solid beneath your feet bounce
off it and get back to the surface
once you're there bend your knees and
curl your
into the fetal position then arch your
back and kick yourself toward the
surface until your head is above the
water take a breath and repeat the whole
submerse engraving thing while moving
toward the shore 10 if you're restrained
and lying in a puddle of mud or muddy
water arch your back
this posture will help the air to get to
your lungs faster and more easily
granted it might not work as effectively
in rough waters in that case you should
completely rotate your body and the
moment your head is above the surface
take a deep breath after that keep
moving forward towards firm ground 11 as
soon as you realize you're lost in the
woods during a hike immediately stop it
may sound counterintuitive but the best
solution isn't to keep walking for one
reason when you move you'll get
dehydrated faster besides the further
you travel away from wherever you got
lost the longer it'll take a rescue
party to find you the best idea is to
stay where you are and to create some
sort of shelter 12 there's an urban
survival myth that it's safe to drink
salt water and small amounts but in
reality such a delusion can have very
dramatic consequences drinking any
amount of salt water leads to
dehydration much faster than if you
don't drink anything at all the best
thing you can do with salt water is to
use it for cooling down your body not
drinking 13 when you go on a hike or
decide to spend several days camping
pack your bag with some extra stuff for
unpredicted situations let's say a spare
pair of socks for example if you fall
into a stream or get caught in bad
weather you'll be happy that you pack
them all so it won't hurt to pack more
food than you'll probably need opt for
products that don't weigh a lot like
dried fruit and peanut butter or beef
jerky believe me
this foresight may save your life in
case of an emergency at the same time
never take with you more than you can
physically carry for a long time
even better take your backpack on a test
walk to figure out if you can manage its
weight me man I think I'll just hike on
over to a nice hotel and chill by the
pool oh yeah hey if you learn something
new today then give the video a like and
share with a friend and here are some
other videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life